5 YURd UH / Government of India

i
4
}

| x Ud Were Aare / Ministry of Labour & Employment
cies = TAT ORNAAT HelfTeNMI1a/ Directorate General of Mines Safety

DGMS(Tech.) Circular No.0 X of 2020 Dhanbad, dated 09 e1po20
To
All Owners, Agents and Managers of Coal and Metalliferous Mines

Subject: Guidelines for Systematic Monitoring of Slopes in Opencast Coal and
Metalliferous Mines
Sir,

In pursuance of Regulation 106(2) of the Coal Mines Regulations, 2017, before starting a
mechanized opencast working, the Owner and agent of the mine have to ensure that the
mine, including its method of working, ultimate pit slope, dump slope and monitoring of
slope stability, has been planned, designed and worked as determined by a scientific study
and a copy of the report of such study has been kept available in the office of the mine.
Insertion of a similar provision is in pipeline by making amendment in the Metalliferous
Mines Regulations, 1961. Further as per No. DGMS (Technical) Circular/08, dated
23.09.2013, the mine management has to deploy a suitable slope monitoring system in
mines customized to the local needs for ensuring timely withdrawal of men and machinery
from any area in a mine likely to be affected by an impending slope failure.

However, still there is a lot of diversity amongst different mines in understanding and
practices of slope monitoring. Therefore, it was felt necessary to evolve a broad
standardization for systematic monitoring of slopes in opencast mines.

In view of the above, a workshop on the subject “scientific study and slope monitoring in
opencast mines and way forward” was organized by DGMS on 06.12.2019 at DGMS Western
Zone, Nagpur, to deliberate and review, among others, the present status of slope
monitoring and finalize a protocol for systematic monitoring of slopes in opencast mines.
The workshop was attended by about 79 officials and experts from regulator, various mining
industry and research/academic institutions, like DGMS, CMPDI, CSIR-CIMFR, IIT Kharagpur,
VNIT Nagpur, SECL, MCL, NCL, WCL, ECL, SCCL, NLC, NMDC, SAIL, MOIL, HCL, UCIL,
NALCO, Ultratech Cement Ltd., Maihar Cement, etc., in which 12 technical presentations
were made by different experts giving valuable inputs on the subject matter.

Based on various inputs drawn from the detailed deliberations and discussions made in the
workshop, the following guidelines are being made for systematic monitoring of slope in
opencast coal and metalliferous mines:

1.0 Monitoring methodology:

La The owner, agent or manager of every opencast mine shall deploy a suitable slope
monitoring system customized to the local needs in his mine for ensuring timely
withdrawal of men and machinery from any area in the mine likely to be affected by
an impending slope failure, as required under DGMS (Technical) Circular/08, dated
23.09.2013.

lak

1.3

2.0

3.0

dA

a2

3:3

Selection of methodology of slope monitoring, including the nature & frequency of
inspections, type of instrumentations, periodicity of capturing data & analysis
thereof, etc., as will be suitable to forecast and address the potential level of
impending danger in a mine shall be decided based on a scientific study.

The scientific study report shall, among others, also specify different trigger points of
observed values, like Warning Level, Withdrawal Level, etc., based on which a trigger
action response plan (TARP) shall be formulated & kept operative in the mine.

Recording and analysis of observational data:

All observations taken for monitoring of slope in a mine shall be recorded and duly
signed in a bound-paged register or in tamper-proof electronic form by the
competent person responsible for taking the observations. The observational data
shall be analyzed by the slope monitoring officer using the analysis technique
recommended in the scientific report. Wherever warranted, help of any scientific
agency expert in the subject may be taken for the purpose.

Organization for slope monitoring:

a) The manager of every opencast mine shall have a structured team of trained
competent persons for slope monitoring headed by a slope monitoring officer
with clearly defined duties and responsibilities. In mine(s) where a strata control
officer is already appointed, it may be adequate if the same person is authorized

- to work as slope monitoring officer.

b) In respect of a group of mines in operation, the Owner/Agent shall create a
dedicated “Geo-Technical Cell” with appropriate organization and infrastructure
for the purpose of

> keeping a close liaison with the slope monitoring activities being undertaken
in various mines,

> reviewing the technique used, instrumentation deployed, frequency for slope
monitoring, recording of measurements and analysis, etc.,

> conduct of mock rehearsals and

> training and up-skilling of the engaged organization on slope monitoring in
mines

The manager shall also define duties and responsibilities of different managerial and
supervisory personnel in the mine with regard to dissemination of information and
action to be taken to make the TARP operative.

There shall be provided an effective means of communication system in the mine for
prompt dissemination of the information amongst concerned officials for timely
action.

All Owners, Agents and Managers of coal and metalliferous mines are advised to ensure
compliance with this circular.

oA\\ve“

(R. Subramanian)
Director General of Mines Safety