                               भारत सरकार/Government of India
                  श्रम एं व रोजगार मं त्रालय/ Ministry of Labour & Employment
                 खान सुरक्षा महाननदे शालय/ Directorate General of Mines Safety


SAFETY ALERT: 2 3                                                 Dhanbad, dated 0 4 . 0 8 . 2 0 2 6

    SUBJECT: Fatal accident occurred due to falling of 60ton dumper from Rehandling OB dump at
    Kusmunda Opencast Mine.
    1.   Name of Mine          :   Kusmunda Opencast Mine
    2.   Name of Owner         :   M/s SECL
         District              :   Korba
         State                 :   Chattisgarh
    3.   Mineral               :   Coal
    4.   Date and time of      :   21.06.2026 and C shift ( 12:45AM)
         accident
    5.   Place of accident     :  Rehandling OB dump
    6.   Killed                :  Name:Satyanarayan
                                  Designation:Dumper Operator
                                  Age: 43years
                                  Experience: 05 years in work Operation.
    7.   Seriously Injured     : NA
    8.   Brief Cause           : Cause of the accident as informed by the Mine management, in C shift at
                                  about 12:45 AM, the 60T Dumper, while carrying out dumping operation, the
                                  dumper crossed the berm at the dumping edge and fell down, resulting in the
                                  vehicle overturning due to which operator sustained serious injuries to which
                                  he succumbed on the spot.
    9.   Sketch showing the accident:
     10.     Best Practices:
                1. Maintain Safe Distance from Dump Edge:- Dumpers and other heavy earth-moving machinery
                     should always operate at a safe distance from the dump edge as specified in the mine's
                     Standard.
                  2. Operating Procedure (SOP). A clearly demarcated safe operating limit should be established
                     and strictly enforced.
                  3. Construction and Maintenance of Safety Berms:- Adequate stop-blocks, berms, or safety
                        bunds of sufficient height and strength should be provided along dump edges. Safety berms
                        should be regularly inspected and maintained to ensure their effectiveness.
                  4. Operator Training and Competency on Defensive Driving:- Only trained, competent, and
                     authorized operators should be permitted to operate dumper. Special training should be
                     provided on dump-edge operations, machine controls, blind spots, and emergency response
                     procedures.
                  5. Seat Belt Usage:- Operators must wear seat belts at all times while operating mobile
                      equipment. Supervisors should ensure strict compliance with seat belt requirements. Seat belts
                      significantly reduce the risk of ejection during rollovers or sudden movements.


*Safety Alert, a tool utilized by DGMS, informs the mining industry about potential safety issues and offers recommendations to prevent such incident.

                              Directorate General of Mines Safety: 125 years in the service of the nation
