                                                  Ministry of Coal


      Measures in place to Ensure Coal Mines Safety

                                 Posted On: 07 AUG 2023 3:46PM by PIB Delhi



 The details of fund allocated under Conservation and Safety in coal mines in the last three years
are as under:
                                                                                                     (Rs. in crore)

                                 2022-23          2021-22             2020-21
Name of Sub Schemes
                                 BE     RE        BE        RE        BE          RE
Conservation and Safety          4.00   4.00      6.00      4.50      10.00       6.00



 Rs 20 Cr has been allocated during BE-2023-24. As per approved outlay, Rs. 20 Cr has been provisioned for
2024-25 and Rs. 20 Cr for 2025-26.
 Details of accidents at coal mining sites, including injuries and casualties reported in the last three years, are
as under:

                   No. of         F a t a l N o . o f f a t a l i t i e s / No. of serious No. of persons seriously
S. No.     Year
                   accidents                Causalities                     accidents      injured
1          2020    48                        53                       1 18               139
2          2021    43                        51                       193                195
3          2022    24                        28                       179                189



         The steps taken to reduce the occurrence of such accidents at coal mining sites, are as under:
(i) Occupational safety & health of workers employed in mines including coal mines is governed by Mines
Act, 1952 and rules and regulation framed thereunder. The Mines Act, 1952 is administered by Directorate
General of Mines Safety (DGMS) by way of development of suitable legislations, rules, regulations, standards
and guidelines, inspection, investigations of accidents, awareness activities and formulating risk management
plan and SoPs.
(ii) Apart from compliance of the statutory provisions under the Mines Act, 1952, the Mines Rules- 1955,
the Coal Mine Regulations- 2017 and Bye-laws & Standing Order framed there under, the following steps are
taken to reduce occurrence of accidents and to ensure safety in coal miners -
      o Preparation and implementation of Site Specific Risk Assessment based Safety Management Plans
      (SMPs).
      o Preparation and implementationofPrincipal Hazards Management Plans (PHMPs).
      o Formulation and complianceof Site-specific Risk Assessment based Standard Operating Procedures
      (SOPs).
      o Conducting Safety Audit of mines through multi-disciplinary Safety Audit teams.
      o Adoption of the state-of-the art mechanism for Strata Management such as Scientifically determined
       Rock Mass Rating (RMR) based Support System.
       o Strata Control Cell for monitoring efficacy of strata support system.
  ●   Roof bolting by using mechanized Drilling for Roof Bolting with Resin and Cement capsules and use
      modern Strata Monitoring Instruments.

(iii) Mechanism for monitoring of mine environment:
       o Detection of mine gases by Methanometer, CO-detector, Multi-gas detector etc.
       o Continuous monitoring of mine environment by installing Environmental Tele Monitoring System
       (ETMS) & Local Methane Detectors (LMD) etc.
       o Application of Gas Chromatograph for mine air sample analysis with better accuracy.
       o Use of Personal Dust Sampler (PDS).
       o Use of Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (CAAQMS) in large OCPs to assess the
       ambient dust concentration.
(iv) Specific Safety measures for OC mines:
       o Use of eco-friendly Surface Miners for blast free safe mining.
       o Formulation and implementation of Mine-specific Traffic Rules.
       o Training on Simulators to HEMM operators.
       o Dumpers fitted with Proximity Warning Devices, Rear view mirrors and camera, Audio-Visual
       Alarm (AVA), Automatic Fire Detection & Suppression system etc.
       o Ergonomically designed seats & AC Cabins for operators’ comfort.
       o GPS based Operator Independent Truck Dispatch System (OITDS) and Geo-fencing in some large
       OCPs for tracking movement of HEMMs inside OC mine.
       o Lighting arrangement using high mast towers for increasing level of illumination.
(v) Training on Mine Safety:
       o Initial and Refresher training & On-the-Job Training as per statute.
       o Training on Simulators to HEMM operators.
       o Skill up-gradation of frontline mine officials on continual basis on various topics.
       o Sensitization of all employees including Members of Safety Committees and contractual workmen on
       regular basis.
       o Various training programme for enhancement of knowledge of mine executives.
       o Training on Risk Management by SIMTARS accredited executives.
(vi) Mine Safety Inspection:
       o Round-the-clock Supervision of all mining operations by adequate number of competent & statutory
       Supervisors and mine Officials.
       o Regular Inspection by Workmen Inspectors appointed in each mine.
       o Surprise back shift mine Inspections by mine and area level officials.
       o Regular mine Inspection by officials of Internal Safety Organization of respective subsidiary and
       CIL.
        o Periodic mine Inspections by senior officials of CIL & Subsidiaries.
        o Regular safety awareness programs are conducted in every mine to increase safety awareness
        amongst grass root level workmen for ensuring compliance of safety norms.
   ●   Online Centralized Safety Monitoring System “CIL Safety Information System (CSIS)” for monitoring
       different safety parameters.

This information was given by Union Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Shri Pralhad Joshi in
a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.
                                                      ****
BY/RKP




(Release ID: 1946382)
